Going back to our little insurance portal,
we've got some tests that
we could write for this.
So that's what I always do.
If I am fixing something on a component, I
really wanna write some tests when I ship
it cuz that's a great time to like,
okay, we fix some bugs.
How can we prevent this
from ever happening again?
We could probably write some tests for it.
So, let's go over to VS Code, and
this is gonna be our last coding exercise.
We have one more section that will be
a little shorter after this that we will
have a discussion at the end.
Should be easy breezy.
So our portal switcher,
I have some Jest tests set up in here.
So, where you structure
your tests can vary.
Sometimes people put tests
off in their own directory.
Sometimes people have a directory for
each component that has its own
storybook stories and
Jest tests all kinda co-located.
This is a small project, so
I just co-located everything.
But we have this set up.
It uses testing-library and jest-dom.
We have testing-library/react,
testing-library/user-event.
We pull in our component and render it,
and then we have this little sandbox.
We can write some assertions.
So I have at least one in there to
make sure that this renders and
it's in the document.
So what other kinds of tests do you think
that we could write for this component?
If you think about the things that
we fixed, there was like stuff for
keyboard users, any ideas on kind of what
our test assertions would look like?
>> I guess simulating
the keyboard user flow for
trying to use the component
to change the portal?
>> Yeah, yeah, totally.
I guess some other things
I had in mind were, yeah,
the keyboard support is the big one.
I think that's primarily what we'll do.
But if there's anything in here that
kind of goes outside of the scope of
a single component, like,
do we need to do anything outside of jest?
So that's something to keep in mind.
And I guess for this one,
it was that there's links in here and
I wanted to make sure that those
links navigate to the right place.
It just seemed like something
that could easily be broken.
And I wanted some protection against that.
But that was kind of outside of
the scope of Jest, because Jest and
JSDOM get very mad if you try and
do things with the window.location.href
in very particular ways.
So sometimes when the tooling doesn't
have knowledge of the window object or
there's some API that's kind
of just outside of the scope
of your little internal
unit-tested component.
You might start to be thinking
about other types of testing,
like component testing in Cypress.
That might be easier,
or Cypress in general.
So that's something I was thinking about,
can I add multiple types of coverage for
this to make sure I'm covering
the things that seem risky?
So let's write some tests.
For the keyboard test, let's do that.
So, within this describe statement,
I could say it renders the portal,
or sorry, toggles.
Toggles the portal switcher
with the keyboard.
And I am gonna make this
an asynchronous function.
Okay, so
in here I need to render our component.
I need to get the toggle button.
So, and actually I'll show
you kind of my workflow.
So when I'm writing tests, I put I put
the component on one side or up top, and
then I put the tests so
I can look at them next to each other.
I'm on a small screen right now, so
I am going to collapse the sidebar.
So let's open this PortalSwitcher and
then I'll do control-click, open
to the side on the test, and then I can do
Command+B to put them next to each other.
So that's kind of nice, cuz now I
don't have to flip back and forth.
Conceptually, I can look
at what our code look like.
And actually, we can do it a little
bit TDD style by writing these tests.
I'm writing them for
what I know is gonna be the fix.
And that way they should fail with
the old code, which is kinda,
that's a nice way to work, I think.
So, let's say const toggleButton, and
actually I might need one userEvent.
Sometimes you have to set
up userEvent a certain way.
We'll see if we need it.
So toggleButton = screen.getByRole.
So here's that matcher, that Kent C Dodds,
everyone's friend, was recommending,
which I love, cuz that's centering
accessibility in our testing.
So, I'm gonna get a link,
or sorry, a button.
It says it right there, toggleButton.
And I don't want just any toggleButton,
I want one with a name
that matches the regular
expression of Toggle portal menu.
And that's what we ended up putting
on at least the icon button version.
It has an label.
So the name, hey, there's another thing
we learned today, the accessible name.
This API will get that name from any
of those options that we talked about.
So now you know what that does.
So that's pretty cool.
So toggleButton, getByRole.
This is an async function.
So I can await userEvent.type.
I can say toggleButton.
And I'm gonna pass it the Enter key.
I'm actually going to make
this slightly bigger.
And, is that right?
I have extra parentheses or
curly braces I didn't need.
Okay, so, let's get through this,
const brokerLink.
I'm gonna store where I'm gonna try and
get to.
So that is an await screen.getByRole.
And that one is a link.
It has a name of Broker Portal.
And text strings and matchers do
make me a little bit uncomfortable.
They seem a little flaky, or
they could be less stable.
But that's what they say to you,
so I'm gonna try it.
Await, so we're gonna await this
expectation cuz it's dependent on
an asynchronous brokerLink call
with the screen.getByRole.
So I'm going to await this expected
broker link to be visible.
And this is from jest-dom.
jest-dom also has a bunch of really
cool accessibility stuff in it,
like to be focused, to be visible,
to have an accessible name.
jest-dom is awesome.
So we are going to expect that
that link is visible after we
toggle it with the keyboard.
I'm also going to await
userEvent.type on brokerLink,
when it supports the escape key,
it should send focus back.
We haven't moved that code over so
that this test would pass for that yet.
So here is where in Jest and
testing-library,
I can say waitFor an async action.
And I can await an expected
toggleButton to have focus.
Cool, so that should fail.
It should be blowing up red.
So I'm gonna do Ctrl+backtick.
Let's open our terminal here,
and I can say yarn run.
Actually, one thing I'm
gonna do real quick.
Let me show you where
these tests are set up.
So in package.json, for
any testing tool on the web,
this is your command center
of all your scripts.
You probably knew that.
But when I'm setting up things like Jest,
or Cypress, or Playwright, or
whatever, this is where
my test commands go.
So if you're ever new on a project,
go see what test commands there are.
It's made me very effective on a new
project cuz I can be like, storybook.
And I didn't even need to ask someone.
So always go check the scripts cuz it can
help orient you to what tooling you have.
So, back to yarn run test.
That's gonna run Jest.
Let's see what happens.
Wow, a big thing of red.
We knew that, right?
We knew that.
We were expecting that, [LAUGH].
No pun intended.
So TestingLibraryElementError: unable
to find an accessible element with
the role "link" and
the name '/Broker Portal/'.
So that element, it was not toggleable.
We fired that event and
it didn't do anything.
So even before that, I have one detail
where the links don't quite match.
And, let's see what else.
Unable to find an element by.
I hope that's not just
an issue with my test.
But we can write some feature tests that,
if it's not working,
hopefully it's because we
just haven't fixed it yet.
But sometimes this is the going around and
around trying to fix your test.
Sometimes, that's the work.
So let's swap out our PortalSwitcher for
the one that is working better.
I'm gonna put it here
in our main directory.
Replace that one.
Hopefully it'll work, [LAUGH].
My demo gods at this time of
the day might not be blessing me.
So, yeah, we might not be
able to fix this one in time.
So what it should do is go
from failing to passing, and
now I'm gonna wanna go and
fix those but in the interest of time,
we're gonna have to live
with some broken tests.
How's that for a motivator to be like,
I need to go fix those?
So these tests do work but sometimes,
it's probably a tooling thing.
I was switching stuff around to try and
make the whole project work.
Yeah, sometimes you got to
go check your tests again.
But when these are running in
your CI environment and you had,
everything worked, [LAUGH] and
then it starts to fail.
It can tell you something about your
environment, somebody broke a component.
I mean, you look at what the failure is.
This looks deeper than
the actual component itself,
I could tell, because it's not finding
the component on the page at all.
Definitely try it out when you're
writing some accessibility tests.
Check these things out, make sure
your components rendered for one.
I mean,
that's why we have these tests in here.
It renders, that test failed.
So that actually was very helpful
because I didn't go wondering, well,
why didn't my keyboard tests work?
I'm like, well, even before I get there,
I already know that there's
an infrastructure issue.
So that's why that test's valuable.
And so part of the stuff is it takes time.
It's not the quickest fix.
And that's why when executives
in leadership are like,
just automate everything.
It's like,
that is not a cost saving measure.
[LAUGH] I don't know if you've had
a fiddle with a test suite, but
you could have everything working and
it can just stop with like one upgrade,
TypeScript or a plugin or something.
And then all of a sudden it's
like everything changed.
So it can be costly, but
it's amazing when it works.
And that's why I showed it here, even
though I risked it not working, [LAUGH].
Because it can be really awesome,
especially when you have
a little more stable environment.
Your test tools have been working,
you haven't made any changes.
You can write some tests,
you can run them in CI.
It works really well.
Or it can, anyway.